*slide.txt*  For Vim version 8.1.  Last change: 2022 Feb 02           (Plugin)

                                 by logcpp ~

PLUGIN - VIMSLIDE -                                     *slide* *Plugin-Slide*

This is a plugin for making and presenting slide shows. A series of commands
and key mappings are defined to manipulate the slides. The initial idea of
making this plugin is to support presentations about Vim. Thus the key
bindings are mapped in buffer scope so that you can still use the default Vim
key bindings in other buffers for demonstrations.

1. Key Mappings and Commands                            |slide-key-mappings|
2. Three Modes                                          |slide-modes|
3. Making Slides                                        |slide-make-slide|

==============================================================================
1. Key Mappings and Commands                            *slide-key-mappings*

    <plug>(slide-start)
                        Mapped to <F5> in default. This key switch the slide
                        mode to the Presentation Mode and starts showing the
                        slides. It remaps the <plug>(slide-*-key) to the
                        commands used in Presentation mode. (See |slide-modes|)

    <plug>(slide-pageinfo)
                        Mapped to <C-g> in default. This prints out the
                        information (mainly the page number)about the current 
                        slide page.

    <plug>(slide-toggleannot)
                        Mapped to <C-a> in default. This toggles Annotation
                        mode in Presentation mode. Note that there won't be
                        any prompt showing the mode switching.

    <plug>(slide-nextpage)
                        Mapped to <Right> and <C-j> in default. This moves the
                        slide to the next page based on g:slide_height. Also
                        prints out the pageinfo.
                        If at the last page, do nothing.

    <plug>(slide-prevpage)
                        Mapped to <Left> and <C-k> in default. This moves the
                        slide to the previous page based on g:slide_height.
                        Also prints out the pageinfo.
                        If at the first page, do nothing.

    <plug>(slide-nextline)
                        Mapped to <Down> in default. This moves the cursor to
                        the beginning of the next non-blank line. If the lines
                        get across the pages, the screen will fix to the next
                        page as well. Also prints out the pageinfo.
                        If at the last line in slides, do nothing.

    <plug>(slide-prevline)
                        Mapped to <Up> in default. This moves the cursor to
                        the beginning of the previous non-blank line. If the
                        lines get across the pages, the screen will fix to the
                        previous page as well. Also prints out the pageinfo.
                        If at the first line in slides, do nothing.

    <plug>(slide-nextpage-key)
                        Mapped to l in default. This behaves the same as
                        <plug>(slide-nextpage) in Presentation mode, but turns
                        into the default l in Editing mode and Annotation
                        mode. Also, it doesn't print out the pageinfo.

    <plug>(slide-prevpage-key)
                        Mapped to h in default. This behaves the same as
                        <plug>(slide-prevpage) in Presentation mode, but turns
                        into the default h in Editing mode and Annotation
                        mode. Also, it doesn't print out the pageinfo.

    <plug>(slide-nextline-key)
                        Mapped to j in default. This behaves the same as
                        <plug>(slide-nextline) in Presentation mode, but turns
                        into the default j in Editing mode and Annotation
                        mode. Also, it doesn't print out the pageinfo.

    <plug>(slide-prevline-key)
                        Mapped to k in default. This behaves the same as
                        <plug>(slide-prevline) in Presentation mode, but turns
                        into the default k in Editing mode and Annotation
                        mode. Also, it doesn't print out the pageinfo.

    :START
                        Like <plug>(slide-start), starts showing the slides in
                        Presentation mode.

    :END
                        Finishes showing the slides and gets into Editing
                        mode. This also remaps the <plug>(slide-*-key) to the
                        default h,j,k,l keys. (See |slide-modes|)

    :ANNOT
                        Like <plug>(slide-toggleannot), toggles Annotation
                        mode in Presentation mode. If in Editing mode, do
                        nothing.

    :PAGE
                        Like <plug>(slide-pageinfo), prints out the
                        information of the current page.

    :GO
                        Like <plug>(slide-nextpage), switches to the next page.

    :BACK
                        Like <plug>(slide-prevpage), switches to the previous
                        page.

    :NEXT
                        Like <plug>(slide-nextline), moves the cursor to the
                        beginning of the next non-blank line.

    :PREV
                        Like <plug>(slide-prevline), moves the cursor to the
                        beginning of the previous non-blank line.

    :JUMP {page}
                        Jumps to the page of the {page} number. This command
                        also pushes the page number before jumping into a
                        stack so that user can jump back to the previous page.

    :LAST
                        Jumps back to the previous page before jumping.

==============================================================================
2. Three Modes                                          *slide-modes*

There are 3 modes defined in this plugin: Editing Mode, Presentation Mode and 
Annotation Mode. The three modes are slightly different from each other. 

Editing mode is designed for making the slides, so the most of the keys are
set as default. Only <C-j> and <C-k> are defined as commands switching pages.
Line numbers and colorcolumns are shown. 'modifiable' and 'noreadonly' are set
for editing.

Presentation mode is designed for showing the slides, so the h,j,k,l can be
used to page and line moving. <C-j> and <C-k> are also available to switch
pages. 'modifiable' and 'readonly' are set for presentation. Line numbers and
colorcolumns are hidden.

Annotation mode is designed for slightly editing the slides while
presentation. h,j,k,l are reset to default and 'modifiable', 'noreadonly' are
set for editing, but the line numbers and colorcolumns are hidden. This could
considered as the combination of Editing mode and Presentation mode.

==============================================================================
3. Making Slides                                        *slide-make-slide*

The global variable g:slide_height is set to 22 lines in default. You can
change it to the size you like.

Here are some useful tips in making the slides. The filetype is set to 'vim',
so syntax highlighting are available with words in certain formats listed
below.

Heading~
Capitalized words in the beginning of a comment followed by ':' are recognized
as VimCommentTitle highlight group. The format is like below.
" Heading Here:

Keywords~
Keywords in comments can be highlighted by quoting them with "". The format is
like below.
" Some text and the "keyword" in one line.

Vim scripts~
Codes written in Vim scripts are highlighted normally. They do not need
commenting by '"'.

==============================================================================
vim:tw=78:ft=help:ts=4:sw=4:et:
